- This season...
- Oh. my God!
- MasterChef is going global..
- Welcome. everyone.
As the best home cooks
in the USA will represent
four territories
across the globe.
Asia-Pacific!
- Yeah!
- Europe!
- Americas. baby!
- Viva Africa!
This is
"MasterChef: Global Gauntlet."
Let's go. baby!
Make something that is totally unique
to your culture and to your territory.
I'm making
a Jamaican beef patty.
Everything is so South Indian.
- We're doing a kangaroo.
- Kangaroo?
Aussie. Aussie. Aussie!
Oi. oi. oi!
Can we get back
to the dish. please?
These cooks will fight
tooth and nail...
- to not get benched.
- A red card.
- Oh. my God!
- I'd be nervous about me. too.
Whew! That was good gameplay.
Because in a competition
this rowdy...
- Opa!
- Everyone has the same goal.
We're embracing World Cup fever
here in the MasterChef kitchen.
It's a celebration
from start to finish.
- This is a royal wedding.
- Oh. my God!
Nick DiGiovanni!
But not everyone
can handle the heat.
- Oh!
- Turn it off!
- It's off. They're both off.
- We're on fire. you idiot.
That is raw. It's like a pile
of in the pan!
Please! This is mad!
- Switch!
- That's enough. Go. That's enough.
. just slice one!
- Leave it. leave it. leave it!
- Get it on a plate!
I am feeling overwhelmed.
It's all right. It's okay.
You're not gonna make it.
I don't taste Vietnam
in this dish.
It is so unappetizing.
It felt like
I forgot how to cook.
You're not gonna fool us.
- Oof. Goodness.
- Would you eat that?
I know you so much
better than this.
If you tell yourself.
"I got it." you will conquer.
- I'm not afraid.
- But when their passion
for their culture
shines through...
I am shocked that you made this.
It's kind of incredible.
These home cooks
will be transformed...
- This is a beautiful dish.
- Thank you. Chef.
- Into the best amateur chefs...
- You nailed it.
This kitchen has ever seen.
This makes me
want to go to Morocco.
But only one
will claim the title...
You have put both head
and heart in this plate.
- Showstopper.
- Thank you so much.
And stand on top
of the world.
It is exceptional.
You're fearless.
This is "MasterChef:
Global Gauntlet."
- Let's go!
- Whoo!
- Oh. my God!
- Wow! We are here!
- Whoo!
- This is so crazy.
- We are in the freaking MasterChef kitchen right now.
- Wow!
- Look at the sign!
- Whoa. this is nuts.
Africa. Europe!
- Oh. my God. that clock's gonna be my worst enemy.
- Oh. my gosh.
- What's up. man? Nico. bro. What's your name?
- Nico? I'm Jeff.
- Erin. What's your name?
- Basia.
- Nice to meet you.
- Daniel. Nice to meet you.
- Hell. yeah. bro.
- Where are you from?
Where you think. bro? Feel
this hair. bro. What do you think?
- Got to be. like. Italian. European.
- Boom.
- What's your background?
- Um. Scottish.
Oh. wonderful!
This is awesome.
I'm from Dallas. but I'm
representing Africa and Nigeria. man.
Being here is a dream come true.
I'm overly excited
right now. Oh. my God!
It is such an honor
to get to represent India.
I love my culture. and I was
raised to share it with other people.
Italy is going
to win "MasterChef."
Europe is known for food.
They're known for their flavors.
It's not really even
a competition at this point.
I'm here to tell you that
Jamaica. we're mad confident.
So get ready for the competition
because I'm here to win.
I want that apron more than
anything I've ever tried for in my life.
I'm ready to cook.
Let's go.
- Ooh!
- Oh!
- Oh. my God!
- Oh. snap!
Oh. my gosh!
Let's go!
Gordon Ramsay just
gave me a high-five!
- What the heck?
- Boom!
- Wow!
- I know!
- Oh. my goodness. me!
- Whoo!
Welcome. everyone. to the
amazing MasterChef kitchen.
- Yeah!
- Come on!
This is gonna be
no ordinary season
because we're about to witness
something truly amazing...
the World Cup hosted right here
in North America.
And in honor
of that iconic tournament.
we are hosting our very own
global food competition.
This is "MasterChef:
Global Gauntlet."
- Yeah!
- Whoo!
Let's do it!
Yeah. let's go!
You are each an ingredient
in the great American
cultural melting pot.
- Yeah!
- So we want you to put your heritage
- on the MasterChef map...
- There you go.
- Yeah!
- Yes!
Yeah!
And prove that you can
take home the title...
Yeah!
A quarter of
a million dollars...
and that MasterChef trophy.
- Whoo!
- That's mine!
Now. just like in the World Cup.
this "MasterChef:
Global Gauntlet"
- is gonna be a team sport.
- Ooh.
This season. we'll have
four territories represented.
We have the Americas.
That's right.
- Yay!
- Whoo!
Africa.
- Africa!
- Yes!
Europe.
Whoo-whoo!
And finally. Asia-Pacific.
ladies and gentlemen.
Whoo!
And just like the World Cup.
the only way to get in
is through
the qualifying rounds.
Just five cooks
from each territory
will move on to the next phase
of this Global Gauntlet.
Yeah.
The only thing standing
between you and the world
is your signature dish.
Make us all delicious dishes
that really show us
where you come from. how that
has shaped who you are today.
and see if that global influence
can make you America's
next MasterChef. Yes?
Right. It's time to see
which one of you
will earn one of these.
- Ooh.
- An iconic MasterChef apron.
That's my size!
That's my size.
And with tonight's qualifier.
the territory that will fight
for their aprons first is...
- Europe. Let's go!
- Whoo!
- Let's go!
- Yes! Yes!
Guys. in Europe.
you have 50 countries
from Albania
to the United Kingdom.
Home to iconic dishes like
Greek spanakopita. Spanish paella.
and obviously
the greatest steak of all.
la bistecca fiorentina.
the Italian T-bone steak. right?
- Don't forget beef Wellington. Joe.
- Ah.
Right. Tonight.
you'll have just 45 minutes
to cook your signature dishes
that really just scream you.
and most importantly.
your European heritage.
To get through
this Global Gauntlet.
you'll need to get a yes
from all three judges.
And without three yeses.
you will be leaving
this kitchen empty-handed.
We'll see you through
those doors.
The very best of luck
to you all. See you shortly.
- Good luck.
This is gonna be exciting.
They are lively.
I can't believe we're here.
This is amazing.
I tell you what. it's really
nice to be back with you guys.
- Aww.
- Thank you.
- Season 16.
- So today is Europe.
- What do you think?
- I think about starting culinary school.
Everything that we were taught
was based off of European ways.
Yeah. but let's be honest.
it does come with a lot
of pressure. representing
your cultural heritage.
Listen. I want to see not just the drive
and the passion. but the authenticity.
There's a lot
of great cooks out there.
But we have to keep it tight.
We only have five aprons
tonight.
It's gonna be one hell
of a season.
Three. two. one.
Whoo! Lemon everywhere.
I'm Julia.
I'm from Miami. Florida.
and I'm representing Italy.
specifically Sicily.
My name is Dan. I'm from
Austin. Texas. 31 years old.
and I'm representing
my family's heritage.
They immigrated
from the Soviet Union.
My parents came
to the United States
as political refugees in 1988.
I learned to cook with my mom.
We found my grandma's recipe
book once she passed away.
My love of cooking developed
more and more over time.
- Thanks. babe.
- Let's go. Julia!
Let's go. Julia!
- Come on. Julia.
- Come on.
It would mean the world
to me to get an apron.
for my grandmother.
for my family.
Being here.
it's not just about me.
it's carrying on a legacy.
Because my grandmother
Veronica Cili
was on season six of
"MasterChef."
I'm dedicating this
dessert to my granddaughter.
That pie. damn! Tastes good!
- Whoo!
- Yeah!
My grandmother did great
on "MasterChef."
She should have went
all the way.
There's a line from
"The Godfather" that says
never turn your back
against the family.
And that's exactly why I'm here.
to get vengeance for Mimi.
- She's my blood.
- Perfect. Look at that.
Let's go!
- Welcome.
- Hi.
- How you feeling? First name is?
- My name is Dan.
Dan. tell me about the dish.
What are you doing?
I'm making cheese blintzes
with a blackberry compote.
- Gotcha.
- So my family immigrated from the Soviet Union.
Present-day Belarus
is where my parents are from.
Beautiful. And in terms of the
crepes. what've you got in there?
- 'Cause it looks nice.
- These are typical French crepes.
I thought we'd be tossing that.
You're not tossing?
You know how to toss
those things. don't you?
I'm playing it safe.
Come on.
This is not the time.
Do you want to see him
toss a crepe. yes?
Turn round and do it properly.
Come on. Let's go. Come on.
- Come on. There you go. Let's go. Come on. Let's go!
- Thank you. Thank you.
- Good evening. How are you?
- I'm so excited to meet you.
Wait. hold on a minute. Hello.
- Uh. you actually know her.
- You remember me.
- Do I?
- You should.
- I remember your apple pie.
- Yes! My apple pie!
Oh. my goodness me.
Veronica!
Come here. girl.
Good to see you.
- This is your incredible granddaughter.
- Granddaughter.
- She's a shooting star.
- I love that.
Well. tell me about you. What's
the dish and where is it from?
I'm making you
Sicilian cannolis.
I love that. And these shells.
super important.
- 100%. Yes.
- And if it's as half as good
as what that apple pie
was years ago. trust me...
- Okay. I pray. Thank you.
- Good luck. yes?
Let's go!
- All right. I got to build these.
- Okay.
Slow down. Just slow down.
This one's a little oblong.
Five. four. three. two. one!
- Whoo!
- You did it. You did it!
Come on in.
Give us your first name.
where you're from.
and tell us about the dish.
My name is Dan.
I live in Austin. Texas.
and I've made you
cheese blintzes
with a blackberry compote.
So I'm representing
my Russian-Jewish heritage.
And I was a really picky eater.
but when my grandma
made me cheese blintzes
and put it on the table.
she would say.
"Eat. You'll like this."
- "Eat." Shall we?
- "Eat!"
- Let's do.
- "You must eat now."
Visually. it looks nice.
but it's incredibly simple.
Let's hope they taste amazing.
Okay. remember. you need
three yeses for an apron.
So let's begin with Gordon.
Yeah. listen. great execution
with the crepes.
but the filling.
it's very dense.
It just needs
a touch more sweetness
just to make it
a little bit more interesting.
Yeah. I love the presentation
of the roll here.
I mean. everything
looks perfect.
but the cheese itself
feels very chalky.
- Daniel. it's a no for me.
- Ai-yah.
I liked it.
It's okay. I love you.
- Hello! Welcome. welcome. welcome.
- Hello!
- All right.
- I'm Julia. I'm from Miami.
and I made you guys
the holy cannoli trinity.
and it's tiramisu. pistachio.
and then a classic cannoli.
Now. you make cannolis at home?
Is it a family recipe?
I actually own
my own cannoli business.
- Oh!
- Yes. yes.
So it's pretty small scale
right now.
It's out of my mom's kitchen.
And I actually went to Sicily
to go and try a bunch
of different flavors.
and then this is
what I came up with.
So you actually did
a research trip to Sicily.
- Yes. that's right.
- She's very thorough. young Julia.
- Oh. I love that.
- Yeah. it was my dad's money. but...
- That's amazing. Shall we go and take a look?
- Shall we? Yes.
All right.
- Oof.
- Wow.
What happened
with the plating here?
Yeah. so typically cannolis
are a very humble dessert.
I would say. and I was trying
to kind of elevate that.
However. looking back.
I kind of wish
I would have
just kept it classic.
I'll be honest.
I'm slightly put off
with all these little splats
and the silly garnishing.
It doesn't look
very appetizing. does it?
That's fair.
I'm hoping they taste better
than they look.
I'm hoping they taste
better than they look.
- That's fair.
- Shall we try?
All right. you need three
yeses to get one apron.
Gordon. what do you think?
The shell's actually cooked
beautifully.
- Thank you.
- It's crisp and blistering on the outside.
But the flavor's there.
There's no two ways about that.
For me. it's an absolute yes
to an apron.
- Thank you.
- One yes.
I'm already tearing up. Yes.
When I bit into the pistachio
cannoli. it broke on me.
- but in the best kind of way.
- Okay.
Like. I was so happy
that it was crisp.
The flavors are there.
It's not too sweet.
Um. for me. it's a yes.
Oh. my God. You guys have
to stop doing that.
Well. that's two yeses.
young lady.
- Joe. this is on you.
- Ooh.
It comes down to the Italian
for the cannolis.
This is a difficult thing. guys.
You're young. you know?
It's fierce out there.
Give me the chance. Give
me the chance. and you'll see.
Um...
For me. it's a yes.
Thank you. guys.
Thank you. thank you.
- thank you. thank you!
- Put on the apron.
Great job.
Whoo! Oh. my God!
Oh. my God! Oh. oh!
Oh. my God. yes!
I got a white apron!
I got a white apron.
I have no words.
I'm just so. so excited.
You're going to go past me
all the way to the end.
Oh. don't cry. Don't cry.
Don't cry. Don't cry.
- Tasted a lot better than they look.
- Oh. 100%.
How many 20-year-old chefs do you know
that's gone to the birthplace of something?
- Happily surprised.
- What a promising start.
I can't wait to see who's next.
- Good job. You got this.
- Oh. hey!
Oh. yeah. Oh. yeah.
- Let's go.
- Let's go. Nico!
Let's go. Nico!
Oh. my God!
But inside. I'm freaking out.
I just fake it very well.
- How's that seafood doing?
- It's doing fine.
This dish is definitely
gonna earn me an apron today.
I think they're gonna love it.
They're going to feel like they're
sitting right in front of the beach.
you know. in Spain.
and tasting seafood paella.
- Tastes punchy.
- Yeah. punchy.
When people think
of Scottish food.
they sometimes just think
that it's fried food.
and I want to disprove that.
They have beautiful seafood.
- Oh. yeah. Oh. yeah.
- Smoke in the kitchen.
- Let's go!
My name's Nico.
I'm making red wine risotto.
This dish will earn me an apron
because this is like me
on a plate. northern Italian.
Like. I'm very proud
of northern Italy.
And this is a classic risotto.
so Joe shouldn't
be complaining too much.
- Hello!
- Hi!
- Hi. Aghata.
- What's your name?
- Aghata. So what are you making?
- Yeah.
I am making arroz meloso with
seafood and snapper on top.
- Mmm.
- So this would be a Spanish dish.
Yeah. it's kind of similar
to the paella.
- but with more broth.
- Okay.
- When did you come to America?
- I came because of this guy.
- Of course. it was!
- I first came as an au pair. and then I met him.
- And I stayed.
- Ah. Why "MasterChef"? Why now?
Like. what does
this mean for you?
I love cooking for my kids
and my family.
- but I think I have more to offer and to share.
- All right.
I would taste the salinity in the
arroz and see if you like it that way.
- It's good. I think it's good.
- You think it's good?
- Yeah.
- Even though we decide who gets the aprons.
it's all that matters.
is what you think.
- Good luck.
- Thank you so much.
- Thank y'all.
- Thank you.
Salinity?
Now I may taste it again.
- Hey. What's your name?
- Nico.
- Who are these dudes?
- These are my fans.
- Ah. super cute!
- I see.
- Nico. what are you cooking?
- I'm making a red wine risotto
with caramelized pears
and gorgonzola.
- Oh!
- Ooh. very ambitious.
Is this a dish
that you often have?
Yeah. so I'm from
the north of Italy.
You gonna speak Italian
to me now. too?
- You speak Italian?
- Yeah. yeah. I'm fluent in Italian.
- What else do you speak?
- I speak Spanish and Romanian.
- and obviously a little bit of English.
- Ah! You can teach Joe.
- Joe. how many do you speak?
- Many.
- We're here to talk about Nico.
- I'm just saying.
Italian. Italian.
speaking a lot of languages.
- So this is...
- Young! Handsome!
Are you feeling some
kind of way right now. Joe?
- I feel nothing.
- He's got hair!
I am...
He's got hair for both of us.
So here's what
I'm feeling. though.
- Yeah.
- That's a lot of liquid.
There's the risk
of popping the kernels.
- Yeah.
- It's a tricky dish.
Nico. be careful. I would
get some of that liquid out.
- It's too much.
- Okay. sounds good.
You have nine minutes left.
- You think you're gonna make it?
- Yeah. yeah. Positive.
Not if you don't make a change.
- Good luck. Nico.
- Taste. taste. taste.
You're good. You're good.
I grew up watching "MasterChef"
with my family back in Italy.
and to not make Italian food
perfect for Joe
would destroy the world for me.
Damn. That is frustrating.
Damn.
- You're good. You're good.
- You got time. You got time.
- Don't stress.
- Come on.
I had a little bit too much stock
when I wasn't paying attention.
It's just frustrating
that it's not perfect.
'Cause I know it's...
I made it a million times
- and it's always perfect.
- It's okay.
We got it. We got it.
Yeah. it's better.
- That's way better.
- Let's go.
Trust in this boy. bro.
Trust in the boy.
I have to start plating.
Let's go.
- Very nice. Perfect.
- Oh. the plate's out.
That plate looks good.
- You're good. Nico. Let's go. Home stretch.
- Let's go. let's go.
- It's the last one.
- Five. four. three. two. one!
- Let's go!
Love you.
Welcome. young man.
Come on up.
My name's Nico. I'm 21. and
I'm from Milburn. New Jersey.
- And the dish. Nico?
- The red wine risotto
with caramelized pears.
sage. and gorgonzola.
- Wow.
- This dish. it comes from waking up
in the mountains
of northern Italy
and watching my granddad
eat gorgonzola from the knife.
Sadly. he passed. and we had to
sell the house that he grew up in.
And winning "MasterChef" will
allow me to buy back that house.
- Wow.
- And make it into the restaurant
- that I want it to be.
- I love that.
- Shall we try it?
- Yeah?
- Okay.
- Of course. we know in all these years of "MasterChef."
risotto is a tricky beast.
This is either gonna work
or it's not gonna work.
- Shall we. guys?
- Yeah.
So. Nico. tonight you need three
yeses to get your hands on that apron.
- Um. Joe?
- This is an interesting thing.
When you were
cooking it out there.
you were a little bit
in jeopardy.
I perceived it
as being too liquid.
But it really came together
as it cooled down a little bit.
And I don't know if you're
lucky. smart. or good.
but you just really were able to execute
a thing that's very. very difficult.
But the sage is bad news.
Come here. come here.
Come here. Give me your hand.
Give me your hand.
We're gonna fix this.
We're gonna fix this dish.
Just open your hand.
- Here we go. Ready?
- Gotcha.
All right? You hide that.
put it in your pocket.
pretend like it never happened.
do something with it.
Now we have a perfect risotto.
Go back over. Shh.
You got one big...
Italian men should cry.
- Tiff. what do you say?
- I love the pear and the gorgonzola together.
The sweetness and the saltiness
works really. really well.
Um. for me. yes.
Ooh. that's two.
So now you just need Gordon.
- Yes or no?
- Um. flavor-wise. rice is absolute max.
But I'll be honest. it doesn't need
the sage because the gorgonzola
gives it that nice
tartness and richness.
You're young.
and I'm more concerned
about what happens after this
in terms of what
you're up against.
So. um...
Psyche!
Let's go!
- I just got an apron. baby!
- Whoo!
- Let's go!
- If I can survive this audition.
I can survive any challenge
that "MasterChef" throws my way.
and I'm only gonna
get better from here.
- He did it!
- Oh. oh. oh. oh!
- Delicious.
- And it went from looking like soup...
Took the liquid out.
came together. and it worked.
- Yep.
- One of the best risottos we've had.
- Bravo.
- Two aprons down. just three left.
- Good evening.
- Hello. hello. Welcome. Fantastic.
My name's Jocelyn.
I'm here representing Scotland.
- My mom is from Scotland.
- Scotland. And what do you do for a living?
I am a romance author.
- Ooh!
- Okay.
- I love a romance novel!
- You write. like. about...
romance would be. like.
where people fall in love
- and have relations?
- Yes. yes. There's a hero...
- Are you not clear?
- It's not clear to me. It's not clear.
So how do you get inspired
to write romance novels?
I am a romantic at heart.
I think it's easy for me
to be inspired just
by people in my life.
Would you be inspired
to write some prose
about my Scottish friend here?
Oh. okay. Um...
"I step forward and set
my dish down. heart pounding.
In walks Chef Gordon Ramsay.
shirt tight across
his formidable chest.
golden locks falling recklessly
over piercing blue eyes."
- Ooh.
- "He tastes..."
- Oh.
- And?
We can stop there.
That's fine.
- Wait. no! I'm...
- Keep going!
- No. no. no.
- I'm wonder...
Obviously. this is romance
with a heavy dose of fiction.
Can we get back
to the dish. please?
Tell us what you've made.
I prepared a crispy salmon
with a cauliflower velouté.
- Okay.
- Visually. it looks simple. A lot of rustic charm.
I feel like
as I'm looking at it.
I can taste the different
textures from the crispy skin.
and then obviously that
creaminess of the velouté underneath.
Right. Let's see the cook
on the salmon. shall we?
Oh. please.
And that's what you wanted?
Right. Let's see the cook
on the salmon. shall we?
Oh. please.
- And that's what you wanted?
- Oh.
So. sadly. you can see
that is undercooked.
which is such a shame.
It works well. the dish.
it really does.
It's just such a shame 'cause
we enjoy salmon that is pink.
- Yes. Yeah.
- And sadly. as you know.
yours is cold and somewhat
raw in the middle.
- Yeah.
- Sadly. for me. it's a no.
Okay.
- It's a great idea. okay?
- Yeah.
And continued success
with that writing.
- Yeah. absolutely.
- Thank you.
Please don't write
about Gordon anymore.
Okay. Thank you.
I'm sorry. honey.
- Too bad she couldn't cook the fish right.
- Yeah.
- What a shame.
- It's somewhat unromantic.
You got four minutes.
I am so proud to
be representing Spain.
This opportunity
for me means everything
because I was born
in Valencia. Spain.
My grandpa had a restaurant.
Watching different generations
of my family members
working there.
that helped make
who I am today in the kitchen.
- You are a boss.
- What?
After becoming a mom.
I struggled to find my path.
I've just been craving something
for myself as a woman.
Five. four. three. two. one!
I think it's good enough.
The apron for me
would be validation
that my passion for food
is worth pursuing.
- Come on in.
- Hi.
Give us your first name and
tell us about the dish. please.
I'm Aghata.
born and raised in Spain.
and today I made arroz meloso
with seafood and snapper.
Shall we?
I love the fragrance
on this dish.
I can smell
the saffron from here
sort of blossom and blooming.
- Beautifully done.
- Visually it's beautiful.
It's really just
like jumping off the plate.
Let's get in there.
It's cooked beautifully.
What was the seasoning
on the snapper?
- Just salt.
- Mm-hmm.
The rice has a lot
of seasoning and flavor.
so I didn't want
to overpower that.
- Hmm.
- All right. so you know
that you need three yeses.
If there is one no.
you don't move forward.
Right. The rice
is cooked beautifully.
Just over the al dente.
which is nice.
The snapper. glistening.
As an amateur cook.
you are Spanish
through and through.
- A resounding yes from me.
- Thank you.
The fact that I taste
all the seafood in the rice.
I mean. it is flavorful.
And together it is
a really nice combination.
- I think it's gonna be a yes.
- Thank you.
This dish is very. very subtle.
And very. very elegant.
And its seasoning. it's not easy
to make a rice cooked in a stock
with the fish in there and have
everything be so. so refined.
Thank you. Appreciate that.
- It's a yes from me.
- Thank you so much.
- Congratulations.
- Three yeses.
- Put that on.
- Thank you.
Really well done. indeed.
- Yeah.
- This means a lot.
My kids are my everything.
and I'm missing them so much.
But this is
a life-changing opportunity.
And. you know.
I have so much more to show.
- Delicious.
- She knows what she's doing.
- Really good. indeed.
- Viva la España.
- Three aprons down. two left.
- Two to go.
Oh. my God. It's so amazing to
represent Europe and Greece.
I am representing Poland!
- Let's go Poland.
- Whoo!
- Come on. babe. you got this.
- Babciu would be proud. man.
- Babciu would be so proud.
- My beloved grandmother
who I call Babciu.
she was from Poland.
She survived the horrors
of World War II
before coming to the States and
starting a new life here as an American.
So I'm very. very proud and
happy to be repping Poland today.
My grandmother. my babciu.
would be extremely proud of me
because she knows
that this Polish girl
can cook some mean.
delicious Polish food!
- Doing great. babe.
- Let's do it.
- Let's go. Ted.
- I'm making some pita here.
My cooking journey goes back
to growing up in a house
where a Greek mom always cooked.
And then once I had a family.
I wanted to share with them
the Greek dishes
that I grew up on.
Keeping an eye on our time.
kind of like at home.
You got one kid coming.
one kid going.
Got to land dinner
right in the middle.
Man. it smells good!
Right. Good evening.
- What's your name?
- Hello! Basia.
Basia? Hey... she...
Hey. how are you. Michael?
Are you good?
I'm doing good. How are you?
The wife of Michael
from season 11.
Yes.
Go get that apron!
- My signature dish is a vegan crab cake.
- Are you a vegan?
- Yes. I am.
- Can you cook non-vegan?
I was non-vegan for 45 years.
You got it! Aah! Oh!
Welcome back. So why now.
season 16 of "MasterChef"?
Because it's... I'm
representing Poland. of course.
Mm-hmm. Love that.
What's the dish. please?
- Polish golumpki. which is stuffed cabbage.
- Wow.
It's delicious.
I can't stop eating 'em.
We're nearly coming to halfway.
Don't make them too big.
- Very best of luck. Wow!
- Thank you very much. Thank you.
Hurry up. Get 'em in.
You got this.
That's showbiz. baby.
- Right. My man.
- Hello. hello.
- What's your first name?
- My name is Jeff. and I'm from Boston.
Today I'm cooking a cotolette
with an herb spatzle.
- Pork. you know. is very unforgiving.
- Yes.
How are you gonna prevent
this from going dry?
I cook it very gently.
just enough so that it's crispy
- and it's still nice and tender on the inside.
- Love it.
- I usually nail it.
- Well. fingers crossed.
- Make this dish sing. yes?
- I absolutely will. Gordon.
Okay. the very best
of luck. yes? Come on.
- Let's go! Let's go. let's go.
- Thank you. everybody.
Nailed the fry.
You're doing a good job.
- Hi. Chef.
- Good evening. Welcome to "MasterChef."
- How are you?
- Thank you. I am great. This is my wife Tina.
- Tina and this is? Ted.
- Ted.
- Tell me about the dish.
- I'm making a shrimp souvlaki with a whipped feta.
So we're going to put 'em on skewers.
and I am going to use the cast iron.
How good is this dish
on a scale of one to ten?
- It's a ten. It's fantastic. I love it.
- It's a ten?
- And why this year. season 16? It's a tough one.
- Why this year?
Oh. the Global Gauntlet. I want to
show how Greeks take care of America.
I love that. I have a lot of Greek
friends. They know how to party.
Oh. my God. Our house is not
just "My Big Fat Greek Wedding."
- It is my big fat average Greek Sunday.
- Love that.
We start off a Greek party. we
end a Greek party. It's a big ol' opa!
- Come on! Come on!
- Come on! Let's break some plates right now.
- You ready?
- No. no. wait for me! Let's get some energy
- in the room. Ready?
- Are we really breaking a plate?
Opa!
Right! Let's go!
Watch the cook
on those shrimp. okay?
Take them off 30 seconds early
and baste them as well.
Let's go. Ted. Let's go.
I'm taking a risk today
by making shrimp.
Shrimp can overcook super fast.
We're gonna leave it on
just a little bit longer.
But this plate is more than
just some shrimp. some tomatoes.
- That looks awesome.
- This plate brings together so many generations
from me. my mom.
everybody before us.
Five. four. three. two. one!
- You did it. Good job. babe.
- Thanks. Whew!
It's a little nerve-wracking...
- Okay. here we go.
- Good luck.
But I feel so confident
because I am bringing
the judges to Greece
with my one simple dish.
Come on in.
I'm Ted from Chicago. Illinois.
I'm representing Greece.
and I've made a shrimp souvlaki
with a whipped feta
and a homemade fresh pita.
Let's go. Okay.
Oh. I think it looks good!
Very inviting.
I love that.
that whipped feta underneath.
The shrimp looks nice. the blistering
of the tomatoes. even the colors.
it makes me want to dig in.
for sure.
Shall we?
- You made the pita yourself?
- I made the pita myself.
Uh. right.
Tiffany. thoughts?
I think bread is for sopping.
and I wanted to sop up
every bit of that sauce.
- It's 100% yes for me.
- Thank you. Chef Tiffany.
- Joe?
- I have to say.
it's speaking my language.
I like the elegance of it.
and I like the balance of it.
- This is a yes for me.
- Thank you.
Now. your destiny and your apron
lies in the hand of Chef Gordon Ramsay.
Shrimp are cooked beautifully.
and I'm glad you went
the extra step
and made that pita bread
'cause it's delicious.
- Thank you.
- But. listen. it's simple. right?
Too simple for you?
Listen. it's simple. right?
- Do you have more in your itinerary?
- Absolutely.
With the apron.
you'll represent Europe.
When you've got to represent
the Greeks from Chicago.
- you got to make sure you come strong.
- Mm.
I'm...
- I'm a yes. Congratulations.
- Ooh.
- Thank you.
- Three yeses.
Oh. thank you so much.
- Congrats. man. Well done.
- Oh. thank you so much.
Ah!
You did it! Oh!
This fits good. I like the...
it's like a tailored suit.
- I can't believe it!
- I know.
I'm gonna bring the big fat
Greek kitchen to "MasterChef."
Opa!
We have only one apron left.
- All right. take it easy.
- It does look good.
You're crushing it. babe.
- How many minutes?
- Minute and a half.
Plating.
I'm gonna get my plate down.
There you go. There you go.
Ooh!
Ahh!
You got this. I believe in you.
Come on. Truffle.
- His hands are shaking like crazy.
- You're doing fine.
Five. four. three. two. one!
Yay!
- Love you. Babciu.
- Yeah!
Woohoo! Let's do it!
I will get that apron.
My name. Basia.
is gonna be written
right over here. Europe!
Right. welcome.
Hallelujah! Finally.
My name is Basia. and the
culture that I represent is Poland!
- Love that.
- I made Polish truffle golumpkis with dill oil.
My name is Jeff. and today I've made
for you a cotolette and herb spatzle.
- Wonderful.
- Hope you enjoy it.
Jeff. it looks hearty. Love the spatzle.
the browning that you have on there.
It's very tricky when you're cooking
pork. especially with those breadcrumbs.
Pork can overcook.
I think that the plate
has a lot of complexity.
What's this kind of black
shavings on the top?
Grated truffles. I wanted to
bring out the "umani" taste to it.
It's kind of like putting
lipstick on a pig.
- Shall we?
- Let's try it.
How long did you cook
these for. Jeff?
I want to say about
six to eight minutes.
So you just have to be very.
very careful there.
Never go too thin.
otherwise it sort of overcooks.
It looks good.
Oh. my gosh. this is
like the ultimate truth.
This is a very humble dish.
and you put a lot of care
into this dish.
The spatzle is delicious.
Crispy. fluffy.
and just really nice.
The mustard aioli
and the green component
are both bitter
and contrasting and nice.
but the dish.
it's just a bit dry.
Okay.
I was taken aback with how rich
of a flavor you could get
- in the time that you had.
- The filling is delicious.
You got it right with the
balance of the rice and the starch.
But I'm gonna be honest.
there's some elementary
mistakes here.
- Yes.
- It doesn't need $150 truffle.
This is a fierce season.
and these aprons
aren't coming easy.
And will you get swamped
in the competition?
Whew.
It's tough one. this one.
- It's okay. It's okay.
- Total bummer.
Mm.
Yay!
- I just got an apron!
- Whoo!
I'm going to make Europe
so proud.
Yes!
But I'll take it for a win.
- It's good.
- It is good.
I'll be honest.
it's actually better
than her husband's dish
first time around.
- It was vegan crab cakes.
- Vegan crab cakes.
That's right. yeah.
- Aah!
- What a great first night!
Can't wait to see what the
other territories have in store.
It's gonna be an amazing season.
Next time on "MasterChef:
Global Gauntlet"...
It's time for another
qualifying round.
The auditions continue
with Asia-Pacific...
- I'm representing China.
- I'm representing Pakistan.
For me. representing Vietnam
on "MasterChef."
as more home cooks compete
for a coveted white apron.
My three daughters are watching.
Yeah. tell them I say hi.
Give me 10 press-ups.
One. two. three. Let's go.
The question is. does Asia-Pacific
have America's next "MasterChef"?
Flavor-wise. it's delicious.
It's the kind of thing
you'd be asking for more of.
This tastes of history.
culture. family.
I have to say yes
because that's done well.
One of the most expensive cuts
is overcooked.
It's a no from me.